.TH chocolate-doom.cfg 5
.SH NAME
chocolate-doom.cfg \- Chocolate Doom configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fIchocolate-doom.cfg\fR
is a configuration file for \fBchocolate-doom\fR(6).  This file acts
as an auxiliary configuration file; the main configuration options
are stored in \fBdefault.cfg\fR, which contains the same configuration
options as Vanilla Doom (for compatibility).  \fIchocolate-doom.cfg\fR
contains configuration options that are specific to Chocolate Doom
only.
.PP
\fIchocolate-doom.cfg\fR is normally stored in the user's home directory,
as \fI~/.chocolate-doom/chocolate-doom.cfg\fR.
.PP
The \fBchocolate-setup\fR(6) tool provides a simple to use front-end
for editing \fIchocolate-doom.cfg\fR.
.SH FILE FORMAT
.PP
The file format is the same as that used for \fBdefault.cfg\fR(5).
.br

.SH CONFIGURATION VARIABLES
.TP
\fBgraphical_startup\fR
If non\-zero, display the graphical startup screen. 
.TP
\fBautoadjust_video_settings\fR
If non\-zero, video settings will be autoadjusted to a valid configuration when the screen_width and screen_height variables do not match any valid configuration. 
.TP
\fBfullscreen\fR
If non\-zero, the game will run in full screen mode.  If zero, the game will run in a window. 
.TP
\fBaspect_ratio_correct\fR
If non\-zero, the screen will be stretched vertically to display correctly on a square pixel video mode. 
.TP
\fBstartup_delay\fR
Number of milliseconds to wait on startup after the video mode has been set, before the game will start.  This allows the screen to settle on some monitors that do not display an image for a brief interval after changing video modes. 
.TP
\fBscreen_width\fR
Screen width in pixels.  If running in full screen mode, this is the X dimension of the video mode to use.  If running in windowed mode, this is the width of the window in which the game will run. 
.TP
\fBscreen_height\fR
Screen height in pixels.  If running in full screen mode, this is the Y dimension of the video mode to use.  If running in windowed mode, this is the height of the window in which the game will run. 
.TP
\fBscreen_bpp\fR
Color depth of the screen, in bits. If this is set to zero, the color depth will be automatically set on startup to the machine's default/native color depth. 
.TP
\fBgrabmouse\fR
If this is non\-zero, the mouse will be "grabbed" when running in windowed mode so that it can be used as an input device. When running full screen, this has no effect. 
.TP
\fBnovert\fR
If non\-zero, all vertical mouse movement is ignored.  This emulates the behavior of the "novert" tool available under DOS that performs the same function. 
.TP
\fBmouse_acceleration\fR
Mouse acceleration factor.  When the speed of mouse movement exceeds the threshold value (mouse_threshold), the speed is multiplied by this value. 
.TP
\fBmouse_threshold\fR
Mouse acceleration threshold.  When the speed of mouse movement exceeds this threshold value, the speed is multiplied by an acceleration factor (mouse_acceleration). 
.TP
\fBsnd_samplerate\fR
Sound output sample rate, in Hz.  Typical values to use are 11025, 22050, 44100 and 48000. 
.TP
\fBsnd_cachesize\fR
Maximum number of bytes to allocate for caching converted sound effects in memory. If set to zero, there is no limit applied. 
.TP
\fBsnd_maxslicetime_ms\fR
Maximum size of the output sound buffer size in milliseconds. Sound output is generated periodically in slices. Higher values might be more efficient but will introduce latency to the sound output. The default is 28ms (one slice per tic with the 35fps timer). 
.TP
\fBsnd_musiccmd\fR
External command to invoke to perform MIDI playback. If set to the empty string, SDL_mixer's internal MIDI playback is used. This only has any effect when snd_musicdevice is set to General MIDI output. 
.TP
\fBsnd_dmxoption\fR
Value to set for the DMXOPTION environment variable. If this contains "\-opl3", output for an OPL3 chip is generated when in OPL MIDI playback mode. 
.TP
\fBopl_io_port\fR
The I/O port to use to access the OPL chip.  Only relevant when using native OPL music playback. 
.TP
\fBshow_endoom\fR
If non\-zero, the ENDOOM text screen is displayed when exiting the game. If zero, the ENDOOM screen is not displayed. 
.TP
\fBpng_screenshots\fR
If non\-zero, save screenshots in PNG format. 
.TP
\fBvanilla_keyboard_mapping\fR
If non\-zero, the game behaves like Vanilla Doom, always assuming an American keyboard mapping.  If this has a value of zero, the native keyboard mapping of the keyboard is used. 
.TP
\fBvideo_driver\fR
Name of the SDL video driver to use.  If this is an empty string, the default video driver is used. 
.TP
\fBwindow_position\fR
Position of the window on the screen when running in windowed mode. Accepted values are: "" (empty string) \- don't care, "center" \- place window at center of screen, "x,y" \- place window at the specified coordinates. 
.TP
\fBplayer_name\fR
Name to use in network games for identification.  This is only used on the "waiting" screen while waiting for the game to start. 
.TP
\fBjoystick_index\fR
Joystick number to use; '0' is the first joystick.  A negative value ('\-1') indicates that no joystick is configured. 
.TP
\fBjoystick_x_axis\fR
Joystick axis to use to for horizontal (X) movement. 
.TP
\fBjoystick_x_invert\fR
If non\-zero, movement on the horizontal joystick axis is inverted. 
.TP
\fBjoystick_y_axis\fR
Joystick axis to use to for vertical (Y) movement. 
.TP
\fBjoystick_y_invert\fR
If non\-zero, movement on the vertical joystick axis is inverted. 
.TP
\fBjoystick_strafe_axis\fR
Joystick axis to use to for strafing movement. 
.TP
\fBjoystick_strafe_invert\fR
If non\-zero, movement on the joystick axis used for strafing is inverted. 
.TP
\fBjoystick_physical_button0\fR
The physical joystick button that corresponds to joystick virtual button #0. 
.TP
\fBjoystick_physical_button1\fR
The physical joystick button that corresponds to joystick virtual button #1. 
.TP
\fBjoystick_physical_button2\fR
The physical joystick button that corresponds to joystick virtual button #2. 
.TP
\fBjoystick_physical_button3\fR
The physical joystick button that corresponds to joystick virtual button #3. 
.TP
\fBjoystick_physical_button4\fR
The physical joystick button that corresponds to joystick virtual button #4. 
.TP
\fBjoystick_physical_button5\fR
The physical joystick button that corresponds to joystick virtual button #5. 
.TP
\fBjoystick_physical_button6\fR
The physical joystick button that corresponds to joystick virtual button #6. 
.TP
\fBjoystick_physical_button7\fR
The physical joystick button that corresponds to joystick virtual button #7. 
.TP
\fBjoystick_physical_button8\fR
The physical joystick button that corresponds to joystick virtual button #8. 
.TP
\fBjoystick_physical_button9\fR
The physical joystick button that corresponds to joystick virtual button #9. 
.TP
\fBjoyb_strafeleft\fR
Joystick virtual button to make the player strafe left. 
.TP
\fBjoyb_straferight\fR
Joystick virtual button to make the player strafe right. 
.TP
\fBjoyb_menu_activate\fR
Joystick virtual button to activate the menu. 
.TP
\fBjoyb_prevweapon\fR
Joystick virtual button that cycles to the previous weapon. 
.TP
\fBjoyb_nextweapon\fR
Joystick virtual button that cycles to the next weapon. 
.TP
\fBmouseb_strafeleft\fR
Mouse button to strafe left. 
.TP
\fBmouseb_straferight\fR
Mouse button to strafe right. 
.TP
\fBmouseb_use\fR
Mouse button to "use" an object, eg. a door or switch. 
.TP
\fBmouseb_backward\fR
Mouse button to move backwards. 
.TP
\fBmouseb_prevweapon\fR
Mouse button to cycle to the previous weapon. 
.TP
\fBmouseb_nextweapon\fR
Mouse button to cycle to the next weapon. 
.TP
\fBdclick_use\fR
If non\-zero, double\-clicking a mouse button acts like pressing the "use" key to use an object in\-game, eg. a door or switch. 
.TP
\fBuse_libsamplerate\fR
Controls whether libsamplerate support is used for performing sample rate conversions of sound effects.  Support for this must be compiled into the program. If zero, libsamplerate support is disabled.  If non\-zero, libsamplerate is enabled. Increasing values roughly correspond to higher quality conversion; the higher the quality, the slower the conversion process.  Linear conversion = 1; Zero order hold = 2; Fast Sinc filter = 3; Medium quality Sinc filter = 4; High quality Sinc filter = 5. 
.TP
\fBlibsamplerate_scale\fR
Scaling factor used by libsamplerate. This is used when converting sounds internally back into integer form; normally it should not be necessary to change it from the default value. The only time it might be needed is if a PWAD file is loaded that contains very loud sounds, in which case the conversion may cause sound clipping and the scale factor should be reduced. The lower the value, the quieter the sound effects become, so it should be set as high as is possible without clipping occurring. 
.TP
\fBtimidity_cfg_path\fR
Full path to a Timidity configuration file to use for MIDI playback. The file will be evaluated from the directory where it is evaluated, so there is no need to add "dir" commands into it. 
.TP
\fBgus_patch_path\fR
Path to GUS patch files to use when operating in GUS emulation mode. 
.TP
\fBgus_ram_kb\fR
Number of kilobytes of RAM to use in GUS emulation mode. Valid values are 256, 512, 768 or 1024. 
.TP
\fBkey_pause\fR
Key to pause or unpause the game. 
.TP
\fBkey_menu_activate\fR
Key that activates the menu when pressed. 
.TP
\fBkey_menu_up\fR
Key that moves the cursor up on the menu. 
.TP
\fBkey_menu_down\fR
Key that moves the cursor down on the menu. 
.TP
\fBkey_menu_left\fR
Key that moves the currently selected slider on the menu left. 
.TP
\fBkey_menu_right\fR
Key that moves the currently selected slider on the menu right. 
.TP
\fBkey_menu_back\fR
Key to go back to the previous menu. 
.TP
\fBkey_menu_forward\fR
Key to activate the currently selected menu item. 
.TP
\fBkey_menu_confirm\fR
Key to answer 'yes' to a question in the menu. 
.TP
\fBkey_menu_abort\fR
Key to answer 'no' to a question in the menu. 
.TP
\fBkey_menu_help\fR
Keyboard shortcut to bring up the help screen. 
.TP
\fBkey_menu_save\fR
Keyboard shortcut to bring up the save game menu. 
.TP
\fBkey_menu_load\fR
Keyboard shortcut to bring up the load game menu. 
.TP
\fBkey_menu_volume\fR
Keyboard shortcut to bring up the sound volume menu. 
.TP
\fBkey_menu_detail\fR
Keyboard shortcut to toggle the detail level. 
.TP
\fBkey_menu_qsave\fR
Keyboard shortcut to quicksave the current game. 
.TP
\fBkey_menu_endgame\fR
Keyboard shortcut to end the game. 
.TP
\fBkey_menu_messages\fR
Keyboard shortcut to toggle heads\-up messages. 
.TP
\fBkey_menu_qload\fR
Keyboard shortcut to load the last quicksave. 
.TP
\fBkey_menu_quit\fR
Keyboard shortcut to quit the game. 
.TP
\fBkey_menu_gamma\fR
Keyboard shortcut to toggle the gamma correction level. 
.TP
\fBkey_spy\fR
Keyboard shortcut to switch view in multiplayer. 
.TP
\fBkey_menu_incscreen\fR
Keyboard shortcut to increase the screen size. 
.TP
\fBkey_menu_decscreen\fR
Keyboard shortcut to decrease the screen size. 
.TP
\fBkey_menu_screenshot\fR
Keyboard shortcut to save a screenshot. 
.TP
\fBkey_map_toggle\fR
Key to toggle the map view. 
.TP
\fBkey_map_north\fR
Key to pan north when in the map view. 
.TP
\fBkey_map_south\fR
Key to pan south when in the map view. 
.TP
\fBkey_map_east\fR
Key to pan east when in the map view. 
.TP
\fBkey_map_west\fR
Key to pan west when in the map view. 
.TP
\fBkey_map_zoomin\fR
Key to zoom in when in the map view. 
.TP
\fBkey_map_zoomout\fR
Key to zoom out when in the map view. 
.TP
\fBkey_map_maxzoom\fR
Key to zoom out the maximum amount when in the map view. 
.TP
\fBkey_map_follow\fR
Key to toggle follow mode when in the map view. 
.TP
\fBkey_map_grid\fR
Key to toggle the grid display when in the map view. 
.TP
\fBkey_map_mark\fR
Key to set a mark when in the map view. 
.TP
\fBkey_map_clearmark\fR
Key to clear all marks when in the map view. 
.TP
\fBkey_weapon1\fR
Key to select weapon 1. 
.TP
\fBkey_weapon2\fR
Key to select weapon 2. 
.TP
\fBkey_weapon3\fR
Key to select weapon 3. 
.TP
\fBkey_weapon4\fR
Key to select weapon 4. 
.TP
\fBkey_weapon5\fR
Key to select weapon 5. 
.TP
\fBkey_weapon6\fR
Key to select weapon 6. 
.TP
\fBkey_weapon7\fR
Key to select weapon 7. 
.TP
\fBkey_weapon8\fR
Key to select weapon 8. 
.TP
\fBkey_prevweapon\fR
Key to cycle to the previous weapon. 
.TP
\fBkey_nextweapon\fR
Key to cycle to the next weapon. 
.TP
\fBkey_message_refresh\fR
Key to re\-display last message. 
.TP
\fBkey_demo_quit\fR
Key to quit the game when recording a demo. 
.TP
\fBkey_multi_msg\fR
Key to send a message during multiplayer games. 
.TP
\fBkey_multi_msgplayer1\fR
Key to send a message to player 1 during multiplayer games. 
.TP
\fBkey_multi_msgplayer2\fR
Key to send a message to player 2 during multiplayer games. 
.TP
\fBkey_multi_msgplayer3\fR
Key to send a message to player 3 during multiplayer games. 
.TP
\fBkey_multi_msgplayer4\fR
Key to send a message to player 4 during multiplayer games.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBchocolate-doom\fR(6),
\fBdefault.cfg\fR(5),
\fBchocolate-setup\fR(6)

